docs/local-shell-w-x.md, before:

---
title: Local Shell **w^x** policy in Android&nbsp;10
---
***Note:** The information provided here is about changes in
[the approach](installing-linux-under-proot.html#main_content){:target="_blank"}
of running third-party software.
The Another Term author is not responsible for any results of use or misuse of it.
Use it on your own risk!*

## Facts

1. Google enforces target API >= 29 (`targetSdkVersion`) for all application updates at Google Play
from November&#xA0;1&#xA0;2020.

2. An application targeted API >= 29 cannot `execve()` any binaries
from any file tree locations that is writable by it on Androids&#xA0;10 and higher.
This new behavior interferes with the "Linux under PRoot" feature in its current state.

## Mitigation

Before November&#xA0;1&#xA0;2020, **Another Term** will be split into two flavors:

* `green_green_avk.anotherterm.oldgood` is still targeting API&#xA0;28
and published at GitHub only.

* `green_green_avk.anotherterm` becomes targeting API&#xA0;29
and still published at Google Play.
**Another Term Shell Plugin - Android&#xA0;10 Essentials**
is published in order to provide **PRoot** and **minitar**
for Androids&#xA0;10 and higher
and thus keep the "Linux under PRoot" feature in a working state.
(**Another Term** is a multi-purpose tool that's why
it's better to avoid inflating its size with things that can never be used
or substituted by users' own implementations.)

**Note:** <kbd>MkIIIv18</kbd> will still target API&nbsp;28.
Only the version after it will target API&nbsp;29.

## Using **Another Term Shell Plugin - Android&#xA0;10 Essentials**

1) Install it from
[GitHub](https://github.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTermShellPlugin-Android10Essentials){:target="_blank"}
(as it seems ***incompatible*** with the Google Play policy).

2) Enable it and set it "Always accessible" in the **Another Term** "Plugins" settings.

3) Install a new Linux root as [recommended](installing-linux-under-proot.html#main_content){:target="_blank"}

or fixup your existing installations by executing this snippet:
```sh
for F in $DATA_DIR/proots/*/root/etc/proot/run
do
 "$TERMSH" cat 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTerm-scripts/master/assets/run-tpl' > "$F"
 echo 'PROOT="$("$TERMSH" plugin green_green_avk.anothertermshellplugin_android10essentials proot)"' >> "$F.cfg"
 echo 'PROOT_USERLAND="$("$TERMSH" plugin green_green_avk.anothertermshellplugin_android10essentials proot-userland)"' >> "$F.cfg"
done
```
{:.clipboard}
and manually prepending the "Exectute" field value of each related favorite by `sh `.

## [Related Issue](https://github.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTerm/issues/5){:target="_blank"}

Commit message:

The "Linux under PRoot" feature and Android 10

docs/local-shell-w-x.md, after:

---
title: The "Linux under PRoot" feature and Android&nbsp;10
---
***Note:** The information provided here is about changes in
[the approach](installing-linux-under-proot.html#main_content){:target="_blank"}
of running third-party software.
The Another Term author is not responsible for any results of use or misuse of it.
Use it on your own risk!*

## Facts

1. Google enforces target API >= 29 (`targetSdkVersion`) for all application updates at Google Play
from November&#xA0;1&#xA0;2020.

2. An application targeted API >= 29 cannot `execve()` any binaries
from any file tree locations that is writable by it on Androids&#xA0;10 and higher.
This new behavior interferes with the "Linux under PRoot" feature in its current state.

## Solution

Before November&#xA0;1&#xA0;2020, **Another Term** will be split into two flavors:

* `green_green_avk.anotherterm.oldgood` is still targeting API&#xA0;28
and published at GitHub only.

* `green_green_avk.anotherterm` becomes targeting API&#xA0;29
and still published at Google Play.
**Another Term Shell Plugin - Android&#xA0;10 Essentials**
is published in order to provide **PRoot** and **minitar**
for Androids&#xA0;10 and higher
and thus keep the "Linux under PRoot" feature in a working state.
(**Another Term** is a multi-purpose tool that's why
it's better to avoid inflating its size with things that can never be used
or substituted by users' own implementations.)

**Note:** <kbd>MkIIIv18</kbd> will still target API&nbsp;28.
Only the version after it will target API&nbsp;29.

## Using **Another Term Shell Plugin - Android&#xA0;10 Essentials**

1) Install it from
[GitHub](https://github.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTermShellPlugin-Android10Essentials){:target="_blank"}
(as it seems ***incompatible*** with the Google Play policy).

2) Enable it and set it "Always accessible" in the **Another Term** "Plugins" settings.

3) Install a new Linux root as [recommended](installing-linux-under-proot.html#main_content){:target="_blank"}

or fixup your existing installations by executing this snippet:
```sh
for F in $DATA_DIR/proots/*/root/etc/proot/run
do
 "$TERMSH" cat 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTerm-scripts/master/assets/run-tpl' > "$F"
 echo 'PROOT="$("$TERMSH" plugin green_green_avk.anothertermshellplugin_android10essentials proot)"' >> "$F.cfg"
 echo 'PROOT_USERLAND="$("$TERMSH" plugin green_green_avk.anothertermshellplugin_android10essentials proot-userland)"' >> "$F.cfg"
done
```
{:.clipboard}
and manually prepending the "Exectute" field value of each related favorite by `sh `.

## [Related Issue](https://github.com/green-green-avk/AnotherTerm/issues/5){:target="_blank"}
